						G2C-SMART HOME 

	Thanks to this project, we experienced lots of new things. We learnt embedded systems, databases and their relations.
More important, we learnt how should work on a project as a group. In this project, we also used different ways to 
get knowledge. We watched videos, read the sources, search the websites and we examined the codes of other people.
We saw the advantages and disadvantages of these ways. For example, videos seem to be more practical but we think
searching and reading are more permanent. As a group, we think that the most important benefit of this project is 
that we learnt the relations of some technologies and now thanks to this, we can draw out path in computer science
(at least some of us). Before the this project we even don't know which program will we use to make
java program for pc(In presentation at the beginning of the semester,we wrote Visual Studio which not support java).
However, when we made searchs about it we discovered we should use IntelliJ(also there were other alternatives which
are netbeans,eclipse...). This one is simplest example. We try to say that we are very stranger to computer 
technologies. Now, we know which technologies for which platform and how they work. Because we are familier with
computer technologies, we better understand what we want. For example, one of us started to learn node.js which is
very powerful technology for server side. One of us will start to work on machine learning and go deeper. Of course
these ideas can be changed in time. However the main point is that if we are not familier with these technologies,
we can not think them. This project taught us to open up to the universe of computer technologies and how to discover
them. After this we will continue to discover on our own. Moreover, we have become more knowledgeable about the 
technologies we used(Java-Javafx-Android-Arduino-Relational Databases(SQL)-Firabases-Libraries-MavenLibraries
APIs etc.). We learnt lots of new terms and what they mean.

	There is no big problem about the project. If Covid 19 situation did not happen, maybe communication could 
be better. We could meet and we could write code together. The difficult aspect of our project is writing code
systematic and proper. Because we wrote codes when we had continued to learn. Therefore, in some points, we wrote
codes little bit silly. We regulated after finished but It took times. Therefore, if we made it again, we definetly
would take care of it(for the pc application, Hacı made a demo. Because of this demo, he experienced this issue.
Therefore our pc program's project more tidy).

	All members spent at least 100 hours(average 150-170 estimation). Pc program,arduino and proteus part were 
started early. Therefore, the time which spent for these parts are more much . Because of this everyone did not 
spent equal time but we are all satisfied with each other's efforts.

	At the beginning of the semester, there were fear of low grade, but as we developed and elaborated the 
project, we started to think that it was more than a grades.Now, we think that we can get enough point to pass the 
course with less effort. However, we have started to get enjoy to spend time on it.Therefore, our motivation was always high.
Because of this, some time after starting the project, working on the project turned out to be an event that pleased us more 
than an obligation. Therefore, we spent a lot of time with pleasure. To be honest, in first semester,it were not like it. 
Of course we liked cs101 but working on the console did not make us satisfied.Working on a project, discussions, make a 
new things(although it exist, make a working program) are very pleasing.We do not know how many points we will get but 
we are very proud of what we did until now.Although our program can have missing parts, we gave to much effort to do our 
best.Sometimes in order to work together, we worked until the morning because our common empty time was just this range.
When we think about what we have experineced and done,we are very pleased with the point that we have reached.We will not 
be limited to this cs project, we will continue to work on this project. We believe that our project will be base to
colonies and sustaniable life(Because of time restriction we can not mentioned our this idea. The reason we put the aquarium 
and greenhouse into the project is to provide sustaniable system.For example,The water which come from aquarim will use in 
greenhouse etc.In the future, if humanity goes to Mars, sources may be limited). Therefore, we start to search,consult 
some people about this subject. We don't have much information about artificial intelligence and IoT, but the best thing 
that we know is that we still have a long way to go(If you have any suggestions about these fields,we will be pleasure to 
hear. We need to find a way for these fields). To conclude,we are proud of what we did. it may not be exactly as required 
by the course conditions or it may have bad parts but we are really happy with what we learned and did while doing this 
project. this project is like our baby now. We will always make new projects throughout our lives, we will work in big 
companies, but we do not think that any of them will give us the feeling that this project gives us.

	Thanks for everything hocam :)

	İLKE DOĞAN 
	HACI ÇAKIN 
	METEHAN SAÇAKÇI 
	ERENGAZİ MUTLU
	TARIK BUĞRA KARALİ
	NASUH DİNÇER 

